_tabs/about.md, before:

---
# the default layout is 'page'
icon: fas fa-info-circle
order: 4
---

Galen is a science and technology enthusiast dedicated to life-long learning. Through the application of ethics, reason, and observation, he believes we can tackle problems in medicine, the environment, economics, and exploration.

# Education

## Masters of Science in Computer Science

University of Northern British Columbia (2020--2022)

- Thesis: [ConAction: Efficient Implementations and Applications of Functions Inspired by the Trinity of Covariation](https://doi.org/10.24124/2022/59312){:target="_blank"}

| Person                 | Role              |
|------------------------|-------------------|
| ([Dr. Alex Aravind](https://scholar.google.ca/citations?user=F6DrkCEAAAAJ){:target="_blank"})     |(Former Supervisor)|
| [Dr. Edward Dobrowolski](https://www.researchgate.net/scientific-contributions/Edward-Dobrowolski-2054966210){:target="_blank"} | Supervisor        |
| [Dr. Brent Murray](https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Brent-Murray-2){:target="_blank"}       | Committee Member  |
| [Dr. Mohammad El Smaily](https://smaily.opened.ca/){:target="_blank"} | Committee Member  |
| [Dr. Anne Condon](https://www.cs.ubc.ca/~condon/){:target="_blank"}        | External Examiner |

- Course project: [Literature Review: Synthetic Circuit Design](https://github.com/galenseilis/CPSC791-Advanced-Special-Topics-I/blob/main/literature_review.pdf){:target="_blank"}
- Course project: [Modelling Simple Genetic Circuit Gates with Differential Equations](https://github.com/galenseilis/CPSC791-Advanced-Special-Topics-I/blob/main/project.pdf){:target="_blank"}
- Course project: [Citation Analysis of Genetic Circuit Design Literature](https://github.com/galenseilis/CPSC706-research-methods/blob/main/final_report.pdf){:target="_blank"}
- Course project: [Phylogenetic Inference from Enumeration of Automorphism Orbits of Graphlets](https://github.com/galenseilis/CPSC650-bioinformatics/blob/main/project.pdf){:target="_blank"}
- Course project: [Technical Report: Debate Post-Hoc Analysis](https://github.com/galenseilis/CPSC650-bioinformatics/blob/main/technical_report.pdf){:target="_blank"}
- Course project: [Comparability of Inductive Rules of Gene Enrichment Between Humans and Mice](https://github.com/galenseilis/CPSC673-data-mining-project/blob/main/project_report.pdf){:target="_blank"}
- Course project: [*A Priori* Frequent Pattern Mining Implementation](https://github.com/galenseilis/apriori-frequent-pattern-mining){:target="_blank"}
- Course project: [FP-Growth Frequent Pattern Mining Implementation](https://github.com/galenseilis/fpgrowth){:target="_blank"}
- Debate: Nature vs Nurture of human behaviour
- Presentation: A Brief Introduction to Multiobjective Optimization
- Presentation: Introduction to Adam (Adaptive Moments Estimation)
- Presentation: Accessing Biological Databases
- Presentation: Introduction to Causal Inference

## Bachelors of Science in Biochemistry and Molecular Biology

University of Northern British Columbia (2016--2019)

- Thesis: "Transcriptomic Analysis of *Cyanidioschyzon merolae* Under Nitrogen Depletion".
- Poster: Transcriptomic Analysis of *Cyanidioschyzon merolae* Response to Nitrogen Deprivation Over Time.
- Course Project: Developed a Python script to automate colouring proteins by amino acid residue type in PyMol according to user-provided template file, and presented this work to my peers.
- Presentation: "Transcriptomic Analysis of *Cyanidioschyzon merolae* Under Nitrogen Depletion".
- Presentation: Introduction to Processing Metagenomic Sequences for Ecological Analysis.

## Technical Diploma in BioScience Technology

Saskatchewan Institute of Applied Science and Technology (2012--2014)

- Course project: Extraction of [phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase regulatory subunit gamma (PIK3R3)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PIK3R3){:target="_blank"} gene sequence from a laboratory mouse.

# Employment

## Data Scientist

Northern Health (Nov 2022 - present)

- (2023) Reviewed conference abstracts.
- (2023) Developed and ran queueing model for simulating surgery waitlists among facilities with probabilistically forecasted demands and supply of surgery services.
- (2023) Probabilistic Bayesian inference of stochastic patient transfer surgery network among health authorities in British Columbia.
- (2023) Bayesian non-negative canonical polyadic decomposition of chronic health factors.
- (2023) Made valuable contributions to developing data sceince practices and standards at Northern Health.
- (2023) Developed scenarios for operating room hours being allocated to surgery specialties.

## Data Analyst

Freelance (Jun 2021 - present)

- (2021) Explored and made inferences about experimental [rheometric](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rheometry) data.

I can provide you with services including data visualization, statistical estimation, simulations, network analysis, and mathematical modelling.

You can contact me on [Fiverr](https://www.fiverr.com/galenseilis){:target="_blank"} for a consultation.

## Intern (Advanced Analytics)

Northern Health (June 2022 - Aug 2022)

I developed a process to forecast and monitor unplanned surgeries in northern British Columbia. This included an automated model refresh pipeline that delivered automated forecasts to a Tableau dashboard I developed.

Performed preliminary exploratory data analysis and modelling of estimated length of stay.

## Planting Quality Assurance Checker

Zanzibar Holdings Ltd. (May 2021)

Zanzibar Holdings Ltd. had obtained a contract to plant over two million trees in 2021. To help meet that goal I agreed to assist their team of foresters in ensuring quality control and assurance.

## Student Assistance

University of Northern British Columbia (Jan 2021 - Apr 2021)

Provided valuable feedback for students on their assignments and final exam.

I gave a guest lecture on relations and graphs to a classroom of students. This was a (successful) experiment in introducing graphs and binary relations together to a classroom familiar with basic set theory. I love explaining mathematics, and this approach of teaching both subjects together was motivated by the numerous similarities that can be drawn between graph theory and relations. I also emphasized to the class that mathematical ideas are applicable to practical applications, and shared some examples of research projects from my own student work.

## Software Developer

Norcan Consulting Ltd. (May 2020 - Aug 2020)

Design and development of tools to make GIS, field work, and data management easier. Frameworks, languages, and other tools included Javascript, Node, Cordova, Android, HTML, Postgresql, PostGIS, Geoserver, Openlayers 6, and QGIS.

## Forestry Technician

Montane Forest Consultants Ltd.
- May 2011 to Aug 2011
- May 2012 to Aug 2012
- May 2013 to Aug 2013
- Jun 2016 to Aug 2016
- May 2017 to Aug 2017
- May 2018 to Aug 2018
- May 2019 to Sep 2019

Seasonal position where I supported the clients of MFC by collecting data at site plan plots, timber cruising plots, and in variety of silviculture surveys. I collected GPS data to support the GIS team in producing high-quality maps that influenced harvesting decisions.

## Research Technician

University of Saskatchewan (2014-2016)
Department of Soil Science

Instrumentation:
  - Gas chromatograph with flame ionization detection
  - Gas chromatograph with flame ionization and triple quadrupole tandem mass spectrometry
  - High performance liquid chromatograph with spectrophotometry and ion trap mass spectrometry 
  - Ion chromatograph with electroconductivity detection
  - Fourier transform infrared spectrometer
  - Automated Soxhlet extractor
  - Rotary evaporator
  - Plate fluorometer

Bioinformatics:
  - Quality screening DNA sequencing data
- Reconstruction of 16S sequences using Christopher Miller's expectation-maximization iterative reconstruction of genes from the environment (www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3219967/ )
  - Fasta-formatted database curation from voucher sequences
  - Running and developing pipelines to determine microbial and plant community structure
  - Coding a Python library of small tools for everyday handling of sequencing data
  - Using high performance computing systems to run pipelines

Cheminformatics:
  - Coding information extraction and collation scripts for analytical instrument data outputs
  - Coding a customized integration script for chromatograms

Other:
  - Training new personnel and students on good laboratory practices, safety, and instrumentation
  - Ordering equipment and lab supplies

## BioScience Technology Practicum Student

Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada (2014-2014)
University of Saskatchewan

This position was the final chapter in acquiring a diploma in BioScience technology from the Saskatchewan Institute of Applied Science and Technology (SIAST), now known as Saskatchewan Polytechnic. Based on my interests, and aptitude, an academic advisor selected me to spend a month working at Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada before considering my graduation.

During my time at this position, I was trained in multiple aspects of processing DNA sequences. In general, this included preparing and performing agarose gel electrophoresis, traditional PCR, qPCR, DNA barcoding/indexing, and performing DNA extractions and purifications from bacterial cultures in a laminar flow hood.

Commit message:

Added recent project with causal inference.

_tabs/about.md, after:

---
# the default layout is 'page'
icon: fas fa-info-circle
order: 4
---

Galen is a science and technology enthusiast dedicated to life-long learning. Through the application of ethics, reason, and observation, he believes we can tackle problems in medicine, the environment, economics, and exploration.

# Education

## Masters of Science in Computer Science

University of Northern British Columbia (2020--2022)

- Thesis: [ConAction: Efficient Implementations and Applications of Functions Inspired by the Trinity of Covariation](https://doi.org/10.24124/2022/59312){:target="_blank"}

| Person                 | Role              |
|------------------------|-------------------|
| ([Dr. Alex Aravind](https://scholar.google.ca/citations?user=F6DrkCEAAAAJ){:target="_blank"})     |(Former Supervisor)|
| [Dr. Edward Dobrowolski](https://www.researchgate.net/scientific-contributions/Edward-Dobrowolski-2054966210){:target="_blank"} | Supervisor        |
| [Dr. Brent Murray](https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Brent-Murray-2){:target="_blank"}       | Committee Member  |
| [Dr. Mohammad El Smaily](https://smaily.opened.ca/){:target="_blank"} | Committee Member  |
| [Dr. Anne Condon](https://www.cs.ubc.ca/~condon/){:target="_blank"}        | External Examiner |

- Course project: [Literature Review: Synthetic Circuit Design](https://github.com/galenseilis/CPSC791-Advanced-Special-Topics-I/blob/main/literature_review.pdf){:target="_blank"}
- Course project: [Modelling Simple Genetic Circuit Gates with Differential Equations](https://github.com/galenseilis/CPSC791-Advanced-Special-Topics-I/blob/main/project.pdf){:target="_blank"}
- Course project: [Citation Analysis of Genetic Circuit Design Literature](https://github.com/galenseilis/CPSC706-research-methods/blob/main/final_report.pdf){:target="_blank"}
- Course project: [Phylogenetic Inference from Enumeration of Automorphism Orbits of Graphlets](https://github.com/galenseilis/CPSC650-bioinformatics/blob/main/project.pdf){:target="_blank"}
- Course project: [Technical Report: Debate Post-Hoc Analysis](https://github.com/galenseilis/CPSC650-bioinformatics/blob/main/technical_report.pdf){:target="_blank"}
- Course project: [Comparability of Inductive Rules of Gene Enrichment Between Humans and Mice](https://github.com/galenseilis/CPSC673-data-mining-project/blob/main/project_report.pdf){:target="_blank"}
- Course project: [*A Priori* Frequent Pattern Mining Implementation](https://github.com/galenseilis/apriori-frequent-pattern-mining){:target="_blank"}
- Course project: [FP-Growth Frequent Pattern Mining Implementation](https://github.com/galenseilis/fpgrowth){:target="_blank"}
- Debate: Nature vs Nurture of human behaviour
- Presentation: A Brief Introduction to Multiobjective Optimization
- Presentation: Introduction to Adam (Adaptive Moments Estimation)
- Presentation: Accessing Biological Databases
- Presentation: Introduction to Causal Inference

## Bachelors of Science in Biochemistry and Molecular Biology

University of Northern British Columbia (2016--2019)

- Thesis: "Transcriptomic Analysis of *Cyanidioschyzon merolae* Under Nitrogen Depletion".
- Poster: Transcriptomic Analysis of *Cyanidioschyzon merolae* Response to Nitrogen Deprivation Over Time.
- Course Project: Developed a Python script to automate colouring proteins by amino acid residue type in PyMol according to user-provided template file, and presented this work to my peers.
- Presentation: "Transcriptomic Analysis of *Cyanidioschyzon merolae* Under Nitrogen Depletion".
- Presentation: Introduction to Processing Metagenomic Sequences for Ecological Analysis.

## Technical Diploma in BioScience Technology

Saskatchewan Institute of Applied Science and Technology (2012--2014)

- Course project: Extraction of [phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase regulatory subunit gamma (PIK3R3)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PIK3R3){:target="_blank"} gene sequence from a laboratory mouse.

# Employment

## Data Scientist

Northern Health (Nov 2022 - present)

- (2023) Used Bayesian interrupted time series analysis to estimate the cumulative causal impact of surgery completion in Northern Health.
- (2023) Reviewed conference abstracts.
- (2023) Developed and ran queueing model for simulating surgery waitlists among facilities with probabilistically forecasted demands and supply of surgery services.
- (2023) Probabilistic Bayesian inference of stochastic patient transfer surgery network among health authorities in British Columbia.
- (2023) Bayesian non-negative canonical polyadic decomposition of chronic health factors.
- (2023) Made valuable contributions to developing data sceince practices and standards at Northern Health.
- (2023) Developed scenarios for operating room hours being allocated to surgery specialties.

## Data Analyst

Freelance (Jun 2021 - present)

- (2021) Explored and made inferences about experimental [rheometric](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rheometry) data.

I can provide you with services including data visualization, statistical estimation, simulations, network analysis, and mathematical modelling.

You can contact me on [Fiverr](https://www.fiverr.com/galenseilis){:target="_blank"} for a consultation.

## Intern (Advanced Analytics)

Northern Health (June 2022 - Aug 2022)

I developed a process to forecast and monitor unplanned surgeries in northern British Columbia. This included an automated model refresh pipeline that delivered automated forecasts to a Tableau dashboard I developed.

Performed preliminary exploratory data analysis and modelling of estimated length of stay.

## Planting Quality Assurance Checker

Zanzibar Holdings Ltd. (May 2021)

Zanzibar Holdings Ltd. had obtained a contract to plant over two million trees in 2021. To help meet that goal I agreed to assist their team of foresters in ensuring quality control and assurance.

## Student Assistance

University of Northern British Columbia (Jan 2021 - Apr 2021)

Provided valuable feedback for students on their assignments and final exam.

I gave a guest lecture on relations and graphs to a classroom of students. This was a (successful) experiment in introducing graphs and binary relations together to a classroom familiar with basic set theory. I love explaining mathematics, and this approach of teaching both subjects together was motivated by the numerous similarities that can be drawn between graph theory and relations. I also emphasized to the class that mathematical ideas are applicable to practical applications, and shared some examples of research projects from my own student work.

## Software Developer

Norcan Consulting Ltd. (May 2020 - Aug 2020)

Design and development of tools to make GIS, field work, and data management easier. Frameworks, languages, and other tools included Javascript, Node, Cordova, Android, HTML, Postgresql, PostGIS, Geoserver, Openlayers 6, and QGIS.

## Forestry Technician

Montane Forest Consultants Ltd.
- May 2011 to Aug 2011
- May 2012 to Aug 2012
- May 2013 to Aug 2013
- Jun 2016 to Aug 2016
- May 2017 to Aug 2017
- May 2018 to Aug 2018
- May 2019 to Sep 2019

Seasonal position where I supported the clients of MFC by collecting data at site plan plots, timber cruising plots, and in variety of silviculture surveys. I collected GPS data to support the GIS team in producing high-quality maps that influenced harvesting decisions.

## Research Technician

University of Saskatchewan (2014-2016)
Department of Soil Science

Instrumentation:
  - Gas chromatograph with flame ionization detection
  - Gas chromatograph with flame ionization and triple quadrupole tandem mass spectrometry
  - High performance liquid chromatograph with spectrophotometry and ion trap mass spectrometry 
  - Ion chromatograph with electroconductivity detection
  - Fourier transform infrared spectrometer
  - Automated Soxhlet extractor
  - Rotary evaporator
  - Plate fluorometer

Bioinformatics:
  - Quality screening DNA sequencing data
- Reconstruction of 16S sequences using Christopher Miller's expectation-maximization iterative reconstruction of genes from the environment (www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3219967/ )
  - Fasta-formatted database curation from voucher sequences
  - Running and developing pipelines to determine microbial and plant community structure
  - Coding a Python library of small tools for everyday handling of sequencing data
  - Using high performance computing systems to run pipelines

Cheminformatics:
  - Coding information extraction and collation scripts for analytical instrument data outputs
  - Coding a customized integration script for chromatograms

Other:
  - Training new personnel and students on good laboratory practices, safety, and instrumentation
  - Ordering equipment and lab supplies

## BioScience Technology Practicum Student

Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada (2014-2014)
University of Saskatchewan

This position was the final chapter in acquiring a diploma in BioScience technology from the Saskatchewan Institute of Applied Science and Technology (SIAST), now known as Saskatchewan Polytechnic. Based on my interests, and aptitude, an academic advisor selected me to spend a month working at Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada before considering my graduation.

During my time at this position, I was trained in multiple aspects of processing DNA sequences. In general, this included preparing and performing agarose gel electrophoresis, traditional PCR, qPCR, DNA barcoding/indexing, and performing DNA extractions and purifications from bacterial cultures in a laminar flow hood.
